# Digital Data Backbone (DDB)

The Digital Data Backbone (DDB) is a data-collection and curation framework developed by the CMU Manufacturing Futures Institute (MFI).

It enables user processes to record data generated by equipment, robots, and sensors into a unified digital backbone through a variety of communication protocols and interfaces.

DDB supports multiple data types—time series, images, videos, and more—and enriches them with user-provided metadata to ensure data integrity, traceability, and long-term usefulness.

## 📘 More Information

Detailed documentation can be found at:
👉 https://cmu-mfi.github.io/ddb

## 🚀 How to Run

To use the MFI DDB library, configure both a Data Adapter and a Streamer. Once running, the data becomes viewable in the web-based visualizer.

### Data Adapter

The data adapter represents the data source and converts raw data into an mfi_ddb-ingestible structure.

Steps:

1. Visit http://172.26.179.142:3001 (CMU network required).
2. Click “+ New Adapter”.
3. Select the Connection Type to "ROS Files"
4. Click “Choose File”.
5. Select the config file:
 AIDF/config/ddb/ddb_ros.yaml
6. Click Save


This configures the adapter to ingest the selected ROS topics.

### Streamer

The streamer publishes messages from the adapter to the data broker.
In this setup, we stream ROS data.

Run the streamer using:

```
./exe/stream_ddb.sh
```

### Visualizer

The visualizer displays time series data, metadata, and structured data streams.

Access it at: http://172.26.179.142:3000
 (CMU network required)